Refactor USAGE.md #1371 #1372 (#1496)
cncf/cnf-testsuite: USAGE.md

## [Single process type in one container](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#single-process-type-in-one-container)

##### To run the Single process type test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite single_process_type
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Ensure that there is only one process type within a container. This does not count against child processes, e.g. nginx or httpd could be a parent process with 10 child processes and pass this test, but if both nginx and httpd were running, this test would fail.

</b>

## [Service discovery](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#service-discovery)

##### To run the Service discovery test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite service_discovery
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
  
Make sure the CNF exposes any of its containers as a Kubernetes Service. You can learn more about Kubernetes Service [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/).
  
</b>

## [Shared database](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#shared-database)

##### To run the Shared database test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite shared_database 
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Make sure that your CNFs containers are not shareing the same [database](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/IntegrationDatabase.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that your CNF containers are not sharing the same [database](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/IntegrationDatabase.html).
```

Ensure that your CNF isn't using any persistent volumes that use a ["local"] mount point.
</b>

## [Elastic volumes](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#no-local-volume-configuration)

##### To run the Elastic volume test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite elastic_volume
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Setup and use elastic persistent volumes instead of local storage.
</b>

## [Database persistence](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#database-persistence)

##### To run the Database persistence test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite database_persistence 
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Select a database configuration that uses statefulsets and elastic storage volumes.
</b>

# Reliability, Resilience and Availability

##### To run all of the resilience tests
```
./cnf-testsuite resilience
```

## [CNF network latency](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#cnf-under-network-latency)

##### To run the CNF network latency test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite pod_network_latency
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Ensure that your CNF doesn't stall or get into a corrupted state when network degradation occurs.

> A mitigation stagagy(in this case keep the timeout i.e., access latency low) could be via some middleware that can switch traffic based on some SLOs parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A mitigation strategy (in this case keep the timeout i.e., access latency low) could be some middleware that can switch traffic based on some SLOs parameters.
```

</b>

## [CNF disk fill](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#cnf-under-network-latency)

##### To run the CNF disk fill test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite disk_fill
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Ensure that your CNF is resilient and doesn't stall when heavy IO causes a degradation in storage resource availability. 
</b>

## [Pod delete](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#pod-delete)

##### To run the CNF Pod delete test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_delete
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Ensure that your CNF is resilient and doesn't fail on a forced/graceful pod failure on specific or random replicas of an application. 
</b>

## [Memory hog](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#memory-hog)

##### To run the CNF Pod delete test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_memory_hog
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is resilient to heavy memory usage and can maintain some level of avaliabliy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is resilient to heavy memory usage and can maintain some level of availability. 
```

</b>

## [IO Stress](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#io-stress)

##### To run the IO Stress test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_io_stress
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is resilient to continuous and heavy disk IO load and can maintain some level of avaliabliy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is resilient to continuous and heavy disk IO load while maintaining some level of availability
```

</b>

## [Network corruption](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#network-corruption)

##### To run the Network corruption test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_network_corruption
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is resilient to a lossy/flaky network and can maintain a level of avaliabliy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is resilient to a lossless/flaky network and can maintain a level of availability.
```

</b>

## [Network duplication](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#network-duplication)

##### To run the Network duplication test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_network_duplication
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is resilient to erroneously duplicated packets and can maintain a level of avaliabliy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is resilient to erroneously duplicated packets and can maintain a level of availability.
```

</b>

## [Prometheus installed](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#use-stdoutstderr-for-logs)

##### To run the Prometheus installed test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite prometheus_traffic 
``` 

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Install and configure Prometheus for your CNF.
</b>

## [Fluentd logs](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#fluentd-logs)

##### To run the Fluentd logs test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite routed_logs
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Install and configure fluentd to collect data and logs. See more at [fluentd.org](https://bit.ly/fluentd).
</b>

## [OpenMetrics compatible](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#openmetrics-compatible)

##### To run the OpenMetrics compatible test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite open_metrics
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Ensure that your CNF is publishing OpenMetrics compatible metrics.
</b>

## [Jaeger tracing](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#jaeger-tracing)

##### To run the Jaeger tracing test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite tracing
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is both using & publishing traces to Jaeger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is using & publishing traces to Jaeger.
```

</b>

# Security Tests

##### To run all of the security tests, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite security
```

## [Container socket mounts](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#container-socket-mounts)

##### To run the Container socket mount test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite container_sock_mounts
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Make sure your CNF doesn't mount `/var/run/docker.sock`, `/var/run/containerd.sock` or `/var/run/crio.sock` on any containers.
</b>

## [Privileged Mode](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#privileged-mode)

##### To run the Privileged mode test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite privileged
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Make sure that your CNF doesn't have the spec.securityContext.privileged: true flag set.
</b>

## [External IPs](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#external-ips)

##### To run the External IPs test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite external_ips
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Make sure to not define external IPs in your kubernetes service configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to not define external IPs in your kubernetes service configuration.
```

</b>

## [Service account mapping](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#service-account-mapping)

##### To run the Service account mapping test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite service_account_mapping
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Disable automatic mounting of service account tokens to PODs either at the service account level or at the individual POD level, by specifying the automountServiceAccountToken: false. Note that POD level takes precedence.
</b>

## [Ingress and Egress blocked](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#ingress-and-egress-blocked)

##### To run the Ingress and Egress test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite ingress_egress_blocked
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test: </b> 

By default, you should disable or restrict Ingress and Egress traffic on all pods.
</b>

## [Privilege container](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#privileged-container)

##### To run the Privilege container test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite privileged_containers
```

    
<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Remove privileged capabilities by setting the securityContext.privileged to false. If you must deploy a Pod as privileged, add other restriction to it, such as network policy, Seccomp etc and still remove all unnecessary capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove privileged capabilities by setting the securityContext.privileged to false. If you must deploy a Pod as privileged, add other restrictions to it, such as network policy, Seccomp, etc, and still remove all unnecessary capabilities.
```

```
./cnf-testsuite insecure_capabilities
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Remove all insecure capabilities which aren’t necessary for the container.

</b>

## [Dangerous capabilities](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#dangerous-capabilities)

##### To run the Dangerous capabilities test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite dangerous_capabilities
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b>

Check and remove all unnecessary capabilities from the POD security context of the containers and use the exception mechanism to remove warnings where these capabilities are necessary.

</b>

## [Network policies](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#network-policies)

##### To run the Network polices test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite network_policies
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Define network policies or use similar network protection mechanisms.

</b>

```
./cnf-testsuite network_policies
```

## [Non-root containers](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#network-policies)

##### To run the Non-root containers test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite non_root_containers
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> If your application does not need root privileges, make sure to define the runAsUser and runAsGroup under the PodSecurityContext to use user ID 1000 or higher, do not turn on allowPrivlegeEscalation bit and runAsNonRoot is true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application does not need root privileges, make sure to define the runAsUser and runAsGroup under the PodSecurityContext to use user ID 1000 or higher. Do not turn on allowPrivlegeEscalation bit and runAsNonRoot as true.
```

        
</b>

## [Host PID/IPC privileges](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#host-pidipc-privileges)

##### To run the Host PID/IPC test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite host_pid_ipc_privileges
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Apply least privilege principle and remove hostPID and hostIPC from the yaml file(s) privileges unless they are absolutely necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply least privilege principle and remove hostPID and hostIPC from the yaml configuration privileges unless they are absolutely necessary.
```

</p>
</details>

# Configuration Tests

##### To run all Configuration tests, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite configuration_lifecycle
```

## [Default namespaces](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#default-namespaces)

##### To run the Default namespace test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite default_namespace
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Ensure that your CNF is configured to use a Namespace and is not using the default namespace. 

</b>

## [Latest tag](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#latest-tag)

##### To run the Latest tag test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite latest_tag
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b>

> When specifying container images, always specify a tag and ensure to use an immutable tag that maps to a specific version of an application Pod. Remove any usage of the `latest` tag, as it is not guaranteed to be always point to the same version of the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When specifying container images, always specify a tag and ensure to use an immutable tag that maps to a specific version of an application Pod. Remove any usage of the `latest` tag, as it is not guaranteed to always point to the same version of the image.
```

</b>

## [Require labels](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#require-labels)

##### To run the require labels test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite require_labels
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Make sure to define `app.kubernetes.io/name` label under metadata for your CNF.

</b>

> ## [Versioned tag](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#versioned-tag) 

Reviewer: Wasn't one of these "tag" tests removed?

Author: Yes, it was removed from the Cert command. But it's still a test under the configuration category and hasn't been removed from the test suite.

</b>

## [Secrets used](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#secrets-used)

##### To run the Secrets used test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite secrets_used
```

<b>Rules for the test:</b> The whole test passes if _any_ workload resource in the cnf uses a (non-exempt) secret. If no workload resources use a (non-exempt) secret, the test is skipped.

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Remove any sensitive data stored in configmaps, environment variables and instead utilize K8s Secrets for storing such data.  Alternatively, you can use an operator or some other method to abstract hardcoded sensitive data out of your configuration.   
</b>

## [immutable configmaps](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#immutable-configmaps)

##### To run the immutable configmap test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite immutable_configmap
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Use immutable configmaps for any non-mutable configuration data.
</b>

## [Pod DNS errors](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#immutable-configmaps)

##### To run the Pod DNS error test, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite pod_dns_error
```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Ensure that your CNF is resilient to DNS/resolution failures can maintain a level of avaliabliy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that your CNF is resilient to DNS resolution failures can maintain a level of availability.
```

```

<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 
Enable ClusterAPI and start using it to manage the provisioning and lifecycle of your Kubernetes clusters.
</b>

##### To run all platform harware and scheduling tests, you can use the following command:
```
./cnf-testsuite  platform:hardware_and_scheduling
```

## [OCI Compliant](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#oci-compliant)

##### To run the OCI Compliant test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite platform:oci_compliant
```
<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

Check if your Kuberentes Platform is using an [OCI Compliant Runtime](https://opencontainers.org/). If you platform is not using an OCI Compliant Runtime, you'll need to switch to a new runtitme that is OCI Compliant in order to pass this test.

</b>

##### (PoC) To run All platform resilience tests, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite platform:resilience poc
```

## [Worker reboot recovery](docs/LIST_OF_TESTS.md#worker-reboot-recovery)

##### To run the Worker reboot recovery test, you can use the following command:

```
./cnf-testsuite platform:worker_reboot_recovery poc destructive
```
<b>Remediation for failing this test:</b> 

> Reboot the Worker nodes for your Kubernetes cluster virify that all node survive a reboot and can successfully reschedule workloads. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reboot the Worker nodes for your Kubernetes cluster and it will verify that all nodes survive a reboot and can successfully reschedule workloads. 
```
